---
layout: post
nav: Blog
status: publish
published: true
title: Now hiring&#58; Web Map Developer
author:
  display_name: Axis Maps
  login: andy
  email: andy@axismaps.com
date: '2019-08-15 12:00:00 +0000'
description: Now hiring&#58; Web Map Developer
date_gmt: '2019-08-15 12:00:00 +0000'
comments: []
permalink: /jobs/
omit_nav: true
---

## Who:

At Axis Maps, our aim is to bring the traditions of cartography to the web. We design and build [custom interactive web maps]({{site.baseurl}}/projects) for a wide range of clients, focusing on clear design founded on good cartographic principles. Whether it's a [public health map]({{site.baseurl}}/projects/hpi), an [animated earthquake map]({{site.baseurl}}/projects/smithsonian), a [live election map]({{site.baseurl}}/projects/egypt), an [interactive museum exhibit]({{site.baseurl}}/projects/bpl), or a [historical mapping platform]({{site.baseurl}}/projects/levant), we strive to build the design best suited to our clients' data and audiences.

## What:

We are seeking a **full- or part-time web map developer** to help bring our designs to life. As a developer, you will largely be responsible for writing code that powers our maps, but your cartographic and interactive design skills will also help us make the best maps possible. Please see the skills and qualities we're looking for below, and apply if they sound like you!

We encourage and welcome people of any background, gender, ethnicity, ability, and sexual orientation to apply.

<!--break-->

### We need someone with these qualities:

- **Front-end JavaScript web development experience, including React and D3.** Comfort with JavaScript and web development is necessary for role. Most of our current work involves React and/or D3, so at a minimum you should have some exposure to those and confidence to learn them quickly.
- **Ability to work remotely.** Axis Maps is small team that is 100% remote, so the ability to communicate effectively online, keep projects organized, take charge of your own schedule, and put in a full day's work outside an office setting is a must.
- **Familiarity with geographic data.** There's no escaping some data processing for any project, so you should understand what geographic data looks like and how to work with it.

### Other helpful qualities:
- A good eye for design and an understanding of cartographic principles
- Willingness to learn and keep up with ever-changing web mapping technology
- Experience with Mapbox Studio and Mapbox GL JS, and/or other web mapping libraries
- Node.js experience
- QGIS experience
- Command-line geodata processing experience, such as with GDAL or Mapshaper
- PostGIS experience

## Where:

Anywhere—this is a remote job—but UK and central/eastern USA are preferred, as we are based in those countries and time zones.

## When:

Now! **Please apply by Wednesday, 4 September 2019.**

## How:

Please email Andy Woodruff at [andy@axismaps.com](mailto:andy@axismaps.com) and include:

- **A link to an online portfolio of your work.** _(Important! We cannot consider applications without examples of your work.)_
- A brief summary of your background, relevant experience, and/or interest in this kind of work.
- Anything else you want to share about your motivations and inspirations related to interactive cartography.